.TH NAB 1 "2026-02-13" "nab 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nab \- token-optimized HTTP client for LLMs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nab
[\fB\-v\fR]
\fIcommand\fR
[\fIoptions\fR]
[\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nab
fetches any URL and converts it to clean markdown optimized for LLM consumption.
It includes specialized extractors for 10 major platforms (Twitter/X, Reddit,
Hacker News, GitHub, YouTube, Wikipedia, StackOverflow, Mastodon, LinkedIn,
Instagram), browser cookie authentication, 1Password integration, HTTP/3 with
QUIC, and anti-fingerprinting.
.PP
Typical token savings are 25x compared to raw HTML.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B fetch \fIurl\fR
Fetch a URL and output token-optimized markdown. Supports custom headers,
cookie injection, 1Password credentials, and various output formats.
.TP
.B spa \fIurl\fR
Extract data from JavaScript-heavy single-page applications. Executes
JavaScript via QuickJS and captures hydrated state (Next.js, Nuxt, Redux).
.TP
.B stream \fIsource\fR \fIid\fR
Stream media from providers (Yle Areena, YouTube) or direct URLs.
Supports quality selection, duration limits, and piping to media players.
.TP
.B submit \fIurl\fR
Submit a form with smart field extraction. Automatically handles hidden
fields and CSRF tokens.
.TP
.B login \fIurl\fR
Auto-login to a website using 1Password credentials with CSRF handling
and TOTP/MFA support.
.TP
.B otp \fIdomain\fR
Retrieve a one-time password from 1Password for the given domain.
.TP
.B fingerprint
Generate browser fingerprint profiles for anti-bot evasion.
.TP
.B validate
Run validation tests against real websites to verify connectivity and
provider functionality.
.TP
.B bench \fIurls\fR
Benchmark fetching multiple URLs with configurable iterations.
.TP
.B analyze \fIvideo\fR
Analyze video with multimodal pipeline (transcription + vision).
Supports speaker diarization and DGX Spark offloading.
.TP
.B annotate \fIvideo\fR \fIoutput\fR
Add overlays to video: subtitles, speaker labels, and analysis.
Supports hardware acceleration via VideoToolbox on macOS.
.TP
.B auth \fIurl\fR
Test 1Password credential lookup for a given URL.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose debug logging (global, applies to all commands).
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print version information.
.SS Fetch Options
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-headers
Show response headers.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-body
Show body content.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: \fBfull\fR (default), \fBcompact\fR, \fBjson\fR.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Save body to file (bypasses truncation).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cookies " " \fISOURCE\fR
Cookie source: \fBauto\fR (default), \fBbrave\fR, \fBchrome\fR, \fBfirefox\fR,
\fBsafari\fR, \fBedge\fR, \fBnone\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-1password
Use 1Password credentials for this URL.
.TP
.BR \-\-raw\-html
Output raw HTML instead of markdown.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-links
Extract links only.
.TP
.BR \-X ", " \-\-method " " \fIMETHOD\fR
HTTP method: GET (default), POST, PUT, DELETE, PATCH.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-data " " \fIDATA\fR
Request body data (for POST/PUT/PATCH).
.TP
.BR \-\-add\-header " " \fIHEADER\fR
Add custom request header (repeatable).
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-spa
Disable automatic SPA data extraction.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-redirect
Don't follow redirects.
.SH EXAMPLES
Fetch a page as clean markdown:
.PP
.RS
.nf
nab fetch https://example.com
.fi
.RE
.PP
Fetch with browser cookies from Brave:
.PP
.RS
.nf
nab fetch https://github.com/notifications \-\-cookies brave
.fi
.RE
.PP
Login and fetch authenticated content:
.PP
.RS
.nf
nab fetch https://internal.company.com \-\-1password
.fi
.RE
.PP
Benchmark multiple URLs:
.PP
.RS
.nf
nab bench "https://example.com,https://httpbin.org/get" \-i 10
.fi
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HTTP_PROXY
HTTP proxy URL.
.TP
.B HTTPS_PROXY
HTTPS proxy URL.
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Claude API key for video vision analysis (\fBanalyze\fR command).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/nab/
Configuration directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B 1
General error (network failure, parse error, etc.).
.TP
.B 2
Invalid usage (bad arguments, unknown command).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),
.BR wget (1)
.PP
Project homepage: <https://github.com/MikkoParkkola/nab>
.SH AUTHORS
Mikko Parkkola
.SH LICENSE
MIT License
